README.md, before:

# Bacula

A puppet module to manage Bacula Directors, Storagedaemons and Filedaemons.
Puppet certificates are used for TLS. Optional firewall and monit support
is included.

# Module usage

The Puppet manifests written for Vagrant show how to use the module:

* [All daemons+console](vagrant/all.pp)
* [Filedaemon only](vagrant/fd.pp)

For those viewing this README through Puppet Forge here is the first one in
full:

    $email = 'root@localhost'
    
    class { '::monit':
        email => $email,
    }
    
    class { '::bacula::director':
        manage_db            => true,
        manage_packetfilter  => true,
        manage_monit         => true,
        tls_enable           => false,
        use_puppet_certs     => false,
        console_host         => 'localhost',
        pwd_for_console      => 'console',
        pwd_for_monitor      => 'monitor',
        sd_host              => '127.0.0.1',
        sd_password          => 'director',
        postgresql_auth_line => 'local bacula baculauser  password',
        bacula_db_password   => 'db',
        bind_address         => '0.0.0.0',
        file_retention       => '30 days',
        job_retention        => '90 days',
        volume_retention     => '180 days',
        max_volume_bytes     => '100M',
        max_volumes          => '5',
        email                => $email,
        monitor_email        => $email,
    }
    
    class { '::bacula::storagedaemon':
        manage_packetfilter       => true,
        manage_monit              => true,
        director_address_ipv4     => '127.0.0.1',
        pwd_for_director          => 'director',
        pwd_for_monitor           => 'monitor',
        backup_directory          => '/var/backups/bacula',
        monitor_email             => $email,
        filedaemon_addresses_ipv4 => ['192.168.138.0/24'],
    }
    
    class { '::bacula::filedaemon':
        is_director           => true,
        status                => 'present',
        manage_packetfilter   => true,
        manage_monit          => true,
        use_puppet_certs      => false,
        tls_enable            => false,
        director_address_ipv4 => '192.168.138.200',
        pwd_for_director      => 'director',
        pwd_for_monitor       => 'monitor',
        backup_files          => [ '/tmp/modules' ],
        messages              => 'AllButInformational',
        monitor_email         => $email,
    }

    class { '::bacula::console':
        tls_enable            => false,
        use_puppet_certs      => false,
        director_hostname     => 'bacula.example.org',
        director_password     => 'console',
    }

For further details refer to module entrypoints:

* [Class: bacula::director](manifests/director.pp)
* [Class: bacula::storagedaemon](manifests/storagedaemon.pp)
* [Class: bacula::filedaemon](manifests/filedaemon.pp)
* [Class: bacula::console](manifests/console.pp)

# Windows notes

The ::bacula::filedaemon class supports configuring Bacula Filedaemon on 
Windows, including poking holes for the Bacula Director into Windows firewall 
and reusing Puppet's TLS certificates. Monit support is missing.

Use forward slashes in paths you want to backup:

    'C:/Program Files/Bacula'

Even though double backslashes seemed to work as well, they made browsing (and 
hence restoring) the backups using bconsole impossible.

Commit message:

Add $extra_backup_files parameter
This allows setting sane defaults on global, per-OS, etc. level with the
$backup_files parameter. Then, on a node-level one can use $extra_backup_files
to define the backup files and directories particular to that node. This avoids
the need to repeat the contents of $backup_files inherited from lower Hiera
levels on every node where backups need to tweaked.

Signed-off-by: Samuli Seppänen <samuli@openvpn.net>

README.md, after:

# Bacula

A puppet module to manage Bacula Directors, Storagedaemons and Filedaemons.
Puppet certificates are used for TLS. Optional firewall and monit support
is included.

# Module usage

The Puppet manifests written for Vagrant show how to use the module:

* [All daemons+console](vagrant/all.pp)
* [Filedaemon only](vagrant/fd.pp)

For those viewing this README through Puppet Forge here is the first one in
full:

    $email = 'root@localhost'
    
    class { '::monit':
        email => $email,
    }
    
    class { '::bacula::director':
        manage_db            => true,
        manage_packetfilter  => true,
        manage_monit         => true,
        tls_enable           => false,
        use_puppet_certs     => false,
        console_host         => 'localhost',
        pwd_for_console      => 'console',
        pwd_for_monitor      => 'monitor',
        sd_host              => '127.0.0.1',
        sd_password          => 'director',
        postgresql_auth_line => 'local bacula baculauser  password',
        bacula_db_password   => 'db',
        bind_address         => '0.0.0.0',
        file_retention       => '30 days',
        job_retention        => '90 days',
        volume_retention     => '180 days',
        max_volume_bytes     => '100M',
        max_volumes          => '5',
        email                => $email,
        monitor_email        => $email,
    }
    
    class { '::bacula::storagedaemon':
        manage_packetfilter       => true,
        manage_monit              => true,
        director_address_ipv4     => '127.0.0.1',
        pwd_for_director          => 'director',
        pwd_for_monitor           => 'monitor',
        backup_directory          => '/var/backups/bacula',
        monitor_email             => $email,
        filedaemon_addresses_ipv4 => ['192.168.138.0/24'],
    }
    
    class { '::bacula::filedaemon':
        is_director           => true,
        status                => 'present',
        manage_packetfilter   => true,
        manage_monit          => true,
        use_puppet_certs      => false,
        tls_enable            => false,
        director_address_ipv4 => '192.168.138.200',
        pwd_for_director      => 'director',
        pwd_for_monitor       => 'monitor',
        backup_files          => ['/etc','/var/backups/local']
        extra_backup_files    => ['/usr/local'],
        messages              => 'AllButInformational',
        monitor_email         => $email,
    }

    class { '::bacula::console':
        tls_enable            => false,
        use_puppet_certs      => false,
        director_hostname     => 'bacula.example.org',
        director_password     => 'console',
    }

Note that there are now two different parameters in ::bacula::filedaemon for defining which files or directories to backup:

* *$backup_files*: this Array parameter is mandatory. Its purpose is to allow defining a default set of files to backup. Generally you would set this on global or per-OS level.
* *$extra_backup_files:* this is an optional Array parameter. The files and directories defined here will be appended to the default set. Generally you would set this on a node level.

This split removes the need to redefine the defaults on every node that can't use the default set as-is.

For further details refer to module entrypoints:

* [Class: bacula::director](manifests/director.pp)
* [Class: bacula::storagedaemon](manifests/storagedaemon.pp)
* [Class: bacula::filedaemon](manifests/filedaemon.pp)
* [Class: bacula::console](manifests/console.pp)

# Windows notes

The ::bacula::filedaemon class supports configuring Bacula Filedaemon on 
Windows, including poking holes for the Bacula Director into Windows firewall 
and reusing Puppet's TLS certificates. Monit support is missing.

Use forward slashes in paths you want to backup:

    'C:/Program Files/Bacula'

Even though double backslashes seemed to work as well, they made browsing (and 
hence restoring) the backups using bconsole impossible.
